IP updates For the document and yang files By Mingshuang Jin (#3)
YuChaode/Optical-Network-Resource-PM: draft-yu-ccamp-optical-resource-pm-yang.md

---
coding: utf-8

> title: A YANG Data Model for Device-level Resource Performance Monitoring

Reviewer: Device-level can be misunderstood as applicable only at the SBI interface (between a device and a controller) and not to the controller's NBI

I would make the title neutral and describe the model's applicability in the abstract: see for example [draft-ietf-teas-nrp-yang](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-nrp-yang)

```suggestion
title: A YANG Data Model for Resource Performance Monitoring
```

Author: I think making the title neutral and stricting the resource type within limited range (network element, interface, board, termination point, tunnel termination point) is not suitable. In addition, generalizing the resource types (such as VPN, tunnel) would be controversial( the model will confict with existing VPN PM model and tunnel PM model). 

So I suggest we keep the title as device-level, keep the resource types as currently defined, and clarify the model's applicability in the main body of the document (As far as I know, the model we defined is only used for NBI in IP domain, not for SBI usage.  If both SBI and NBI are used in optical domain, then the applicability of the model needs more discussion ) .

Reviewer: Ok for me to limit the applicability of this model only at the NBI (it seems I have misunderstood this point from the call)

I think the term 'device-level' is very confusing since it will imply in many people SBI rather than NBI applicability

I am also not sure the term 'device-level' is resolving the potential conflict with existing VPN PM model and tunnel PM model

Please also note that some PM data is already defined for packet topology model in [draft-ietf-teas-yang-l3-te-topo](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-l3-te-topo)

IMHO, the key difference here is that we are defining a generic mechanism to retrieve data using the traditional 15min/24h current data and history data definitions. In G.7710 this is called PM data collection

What about "A YANG Data Model for Resource Performance Monitoring Data Collection"?

Author: I agree that "device-level" is confusing, so I think we could keep the title nuetral as you suggest, and leave my concern above as an open issue to be discussed during the upcoming IETF meeting.

--- abstract

> This document defines a YANG data model for device-level resource performance Monitoring which provides the functionalities of retrieval of device-level performance monitoring capabilities, TCA (Threshold Crossing Alert) configuration, current or history performance data retrieval, and performance monitoring task management. This data model should be used in the northbound of network controller.

Reviewer: As per previous comment:

```suggestion
This document defines a YANG data model for resource Performance Monitoring, applicable to devices and network controllers,  which provides the functionalities of retrieval of performance monitoring capabilities, TCA (Threshold Crossing Alert) configuration, current or history performance data retrieval, and performance monitoring task management.
```

Reviewer: In order to limit the applicability to controller's NBI:

```suggestion
This document defines a YANG data model for resource Performance Monitoring, applicable to network controllers,  which provides the functionalities of retrieval of performance monitoring capabilities, TCA (Threshold Crossing Alert) configuration, current or history performance data retrieval, and performance monitoring task management.
```

--- middle

# Introduction

> Device-level resource performance monitoring is a basic function of network management. By viewing and analyzing the performance data of the device-level resource such as network element, interface, board, termination point, tunnel termination point, operators can detect the running state of devices in time, quickly resolve real-time problems or identify major risks in advanced , avoiding users' complaints. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource performance monitoring is a basic function of network management. By viewing and analyzing the performance data of different resources (such as network element, interface, board, termination point, tunnel termination point) operators can detect the running state of the network in time, quickly resolve real-time problems or identify major risks in advanced , avoiding users' complaints. 
```

According to the business requirements stated in {{TMF-518}}, resource performance monitoring requirements include: 

> * Retrieval of current and historical performance measurements for network resources
> * Distribution of Threshold Crossing Alerts (TCAs) to the collectors of PM data
> * Control of performance monitoring in the network: enable/disable of PM collection and TCA generation

Reviewer: Kramdown syntax:

```suggestion
- Retrieval of current and historical performance measurements for network resources
- Distribution of Threshold Crossing Alerts (TCAs) to the collectors of PM data
- Control of performance monitoring in the network: enable/disable of PM collection and TCA generation
```

| YANG Module | Performance-Monitored Object |Reference |
| ------ | --------------------------------- |--------- |
|ietf-te-telemetry, ietf-vn-telemetry| TE tunnel, virtual network| {{?I-D.ietf-teas-actn-pm-telemetry-autonomics}} |
|ietf-network-vpn-pm| VPN service topology | {{!RFC9375}} |
|ietf-service-pm|Transport network service|{{?I-D.zheng-ccamp-client-pm-yang}}|
|ietf-lmap-control, ietf-lmap-report|massive measurement agents in broadband service|{{!RFC8194}}|

{{?I-D.ietf-teas-actn-pm-telemetry-autonomics}} provides a YANG data model that describes performance monitoring and scaling intent mechanisms for TE-Tunnels and Virtual Networks(VNs). {{?I-D.ietf-opsawg-yang-vpn-service-pm}} defines a YANG data model for performance monitoring of both network topology layer and overlay VPN service topology layer. {{?I-D.zheng-ccamp-client-pm-yang}} provides a performance monitoring YANG data model on client signal level. {{!RFC8194}} defines a data model for Large-Scale Measurement Platforms(LMAP), focusing on  task capability and configuration of massive measurement agents.

> In summary, there is no data model/ mechanism to satisfy the above-mentioned performance monitoring requirements at device-level. This document defines a YANG module for device-level performance monitoring, which defines the capabilities of device-level resource performance monitoring, the tca configuration model of a specific resource. In addition, the sub-module of monitoring task and a few RPCs are defined to support the operations of performance monitoring, such as data retrieval and controlling the monitoring tasks. 

Author: ```suggestion
This document defines a YANG module for resource performance monitoring, which defines the capabilities of resource performance monitoring, the tca configuration model of a specific resource. In addition, the sub-module of monitoring task and a few RPCs are defined to support the operations of performance monitoring, such as data retrieval and controlling the monitoring tasks. 
```

| Prefix | Yang Module                       | Reference |
| ------ | --------------------------------- | --------- |

> | dvcrpm | ietf-device-resource-pm          | RFC XXXX  |
> |dvcrpm-types| ietf-device-resource-pm-types    | RFC XXXX  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| rpm | ietf-resource-pm          | RFC XXXX  |
| rpm-types| ietf-resource-pm-types    | RFC XXXX  |
```

| yang   | ietf-yang-types                   |{{!RFC6991}}|
{: #tab-prefixes title="Prefixes and corresponding YANG modules"}

RFC Editor Note:
Please replace XXXX with the RFC number assigned to this document.

# YANG Data Model for Device-level Resource Performance Monitoring

> ## Capabilities of Device-level Performance Monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Capabilities of Resource Performance Monitoring
```
